By now, you know that I'm a fan of examples.
So let's get into one to understand how this lexical environment works.
Let's say we've got code.
So let's understand how this code works.
I've blurred out the law statement and it's just when we're going to execute this function.
But for now, we haven't executed this.
We've just declared all these variables and functions.
So what's gonna happen in the creation phase?
Or remember, what we said at global execution contexts is going to be created.
There was one at the beginning lectures we looked at.
But remember, now we digging deeper into what this means.
What does a global execution context contain?
Well, we've seen it contains two environments.
The lexical environment and the variable environment.
And in all practical purposes, they're the same.
But there's a few subtle differences which we discussed.
Let's look at the lexical environment.
Remember, each lexical environment holds three pieces of information, the environment record.
And here it's just going to be variables defined violate and concept, which is A and B..
And it's gonna be the function.
It's the first thing that's also going to hold an outer reference to the Aalto environment.
And here are the outer environment is now.
Why is it now?
We'll think about it.
We are really in the global execution context.
So there is nothing outside of it.
That's why it's not.
And what is this binding gonna be?
Hundred percent.
It's going to be the global object.
I hope this is making sense.
And what about the variable environment?
What's gonna happen then?
Well, again, each environment holds three pieces of information here.
The environment records gonna be dealing with the var Keywood.
That's the only difference between the variable environment and the lexical environment.
So C is gonna be undefined.
The outer environment is still going to be referencing null.
And that this binding is still going to be referencing the global object.
Would you know what's interesting with this?
And I hope you picked it up.
Can you notice the difference between the variable C and the variable A and B, unlike variables declared
with for which all staff with the value of undefined late and contact variables are not initialized
until the definition is evaluated.
And this just means accessing the variables before the initialization will result in a reference area.
So it's quite an important distinction we've just picked up.
Okay, cool.
So we've done the creation phase.
What's next?
Well, that's right.
The execution phase of this context, of this execution context and all that does is it assigns values
to the variables.
So A and B of the value of twenty and thirty fairly C stays undefined.
Because we've never signed it a value.
Okay.
So far, so good.
But what happens now when we execute the function?
Well, remember what we said, that the two types of execution context.
The first was a global one.
And it's done automatically when we write code.
And we just saw that now.
But now we've executed a function.
So what's the second type of execution context?
Yes, a functional execution context, and this will be at the top of the stack and again, each execution
context within it has a lexical environment and a variable environment.
And what's in this lexical environment?
Well, here we have our function in the environment record.
We've got our function top, which in this case is decorative.
We've got arguments and we have an index of arguments.
The first argument is 10.
The second argument is 20, and it also stores this length properly.
Now, when we look at a reference to the outer environment, look at this and this makes sense.
It's not null anymore because now he's sitting on top of the stack and there is an outer lexical environment
to reference.
And that is the global lexical environment.
And when it gets to this binding, that this binding will also be referencing the global object in this
instance or for using strict mode would be undefined.
And the variable environment pretty much has the same things.
I don't have to go over those again.
And very similar to what we just saw, the global execution context.
It's going to go through the execution phase and that's where the signs of values and variables and
executes the function.
I really hope this is starting to sink in.
And for the sake of completeness and even for making this sink in more, let's do a few examples together.
Let's start getting more comfortable with how this all works.